The French will have to meet a welter of health and cultural requirements, but they still want to serve up some delight.
The unforgettable moment when a competing athlete first enters the Olympic Village in Paris may be defined not by the complex’s impressive size and sweep, but by a smell: the scent of freshly baked baguettes.
This is by design.

“Every French village has a bakery,” said Guillaume Thomas, who works in communications for the Paris Olympics. “We want people to be able to smell the baguette as they enter.”

A boulangerie set up at the mouth of the village will churn out more than 2,000 baguettes, croissants, pain au chocolat and focaccia daily, and even offer baking classes for athletes seeking respite from the grueling competition.

For the 15,000 Olympic athletes competing this summer, food is vital for optimizing performance. The French would like to sprinkle in some delight.

The centerpiece of the sprawling Olympic Village, once a power plant and then a film studio, is a network of six restaurants that will serve athletes around the clock. Yes, restaurants. Or so the organizers call the places known as dining halls at past Olympics.
“It was out of the question to call it anything else,” said Philipp Würz, the food and beverage manager for the Olympics.  A large building whose entrance is lined with flags reads "Paris 2024."
The building that houses the six athlete restaurants stands in the center of the Olympic Village.Credit...James Hill for The New York Times

A large dining room contains many white seats and three large windows.
The large dining complex has more than 3,500 seats and will serve 15,000 athletes from every delegation.Credit...James Hill for The New York Times
At the end of a of a grand runway lined with flags from every delegation stands the 46,000-square-foot restaurant complex, with towering ceilings and imposing windows overlooking the Seine. But inside, it looks a lot like a college cafeteria. There are cereal dispensers, soda fountains and buffets among red floor tiles and kitschy decorations, like a colorful installation of pipes adorned with graffiti and cartoon eyes.
What a college cafeteria does not have, though, are three chefs of famed French restaurants — Akrame Benallal, Amandine Chaignot and Alexandre Mazzia — who will prepare dishes like coco beans with parsley ice cream and crispy mushroom croquettes.
The staff will wear polos and gavroche caps. There will be cheese plates and French butter. The dishware is French porcelain, to be washed in three colossal dishwashers built for the Games.

In late June, Sodexo Live, the French food-service company overseeing this operation, conducted a tasting for the media of the dizzying array of dishes to be served at the Olympic Village, including green gazpacho (refreshing), saffron risotto (vibrant and creamy), falafel (well spiced but dry) and financiers (a tad too sweet).

Three plates filled with varied and colorful food like edamame, falafel, fregola, red peppers and steak, sit on a table.

Sodexo brought in 20 of its chefs from around the world to ensure cultural sensitivity in the six restaurants. Two of the restaurants are French, two are Asian, one is halal and one is simply called “world.”
Carole Galissant, who works in nutrition at Sodexo Live, coordinated with nutritionists from each delegation to ensure specific needs were met. The Koreans wanted kimchi. The Japanese wanted miso. Not all requests could be fulfilled. Several Caribbean nations asked for passion fruit, but sustainability regulations for the Games prohibit importing ingredients by air.
“We are still placing a special focus on the French recipes,” Ms. Galissant said. “Blanquette de veau, lemon tart, Paris-Brest.”
But many athletes may never get to try those dishes.

A dish of beans, blackberries, ice cream and edible flowers sits on a table filled with glassware and silverware.
